I've walk was just in the greatest heat of the day, and I began to fear lest this by no means too solid flesh should thaw entirely away on the road. The Fathers promised to send for a young man, a carpenter, formerly a pupil of theirs, who had cooked for them, and understood French. I suppose at the school-house that evening, met and engaged him, and wrote out an agreement, signed one copy, and handed Mohammed another to sign. He hesitated; he had forgotten how to write his name. 'Well, put a cross,' suggested the Father. He did so; an odd signature for a Muslimman.

It must always be a pleasure to praise the merits of an old pupil, but sometimes it is an imprudence, I reflected. However, Mohammed turned out gentle, obliging, and faithful, and he cooked sufficiently well for me, though he had not the ideal 'Potages des Petits Menus' of Dominique in his head. He filled up spare time by nicking a stick of wild-olive oil over with ingenious patterns. If one should believe M. C. Souvreste, who has published a book entitled 'Instructions Secrets des Jésuites,' it is a sign of little wisdom to apply to the Society of Jesus for a servant. I read that a certain worthy Père Valdez Reynald considers that, 'Les domestiques peuvent prendre en cachet les biens de leurs maîtres par forme de compensation, sous prétexte que leurs gages sont trop modiques, et ils sont dispensés de la restitution.' With such professors and a despised 'cochin d'indigène' for a pupil, I ought to have obtained something quite diabolical.

Night began to darken, the moon rose in splendour from behind the mountains, and a troop of merry boys walked with me along the narrow path among fields of ripe corn that led to my tent. I found four guards awaiting me, who rolled themselves up in their burnouses and passed the night as sentinels. I did not think them necessary, and the Kaïd told me that he apprehended no danger, but he was responsible for my safety, and that it was an old custom of the country, dating from before the French conquest, which he thought right to keep up. The guards spoke well of their Kaïd, as a man who kept things up to the mark; in their tribe they did things proper, not like the Ahit Ménguellath, poor creatures, who go on anyhow. The Ahit Ménguellath had said to me, 'Thou forsakest friends to fall among thieves in the Beni lenni.'

To enumerate the settlements of the Beni lenni contained in a circle within a radius of a mile, will show how thickly inhabited is Kabylie.